Insert Data Into Table:

to add/insert/store data into table, we use "INSERT INTO" statement.

1. Ways To Insert Data Into Table:

There are 4 ways to insert data into the table:

1. Insert Data Into All Columns of 1 Row At a Time (Full Row Insert Without Specifying Column Names):

	insert data without specifying column names means full row insert.
	This method requires you to provide values for all columns in order, except columns with default values or AUTO_INCREMENT.

2. Insert Data Into Specific Columns At a Time (For 1 Row):

	we can only insert data into specific columns of 1 row using this method.
	insert data with specifying column names of the table, means insert data not into the full row, instead of this, insert data into some specific
	columns of the table.
	This method does not require you to provide values for all columns.
	This method is safer and more readable.

3. Insert Data By 1 Row At a Time:

	means insert only 1 row at a time.

4. Insert Data Into Multiple Rows At Once:

	insert all the data at once into the table means insert data into multiple rows at once.
	This is more efficient than inserting rows one by one.

Note: it is recommended to insert multiple rows at once by typing the column names means insert all the data at once into the table with column names,
      it saves time and increase productivity.

2. How To Insert Data Into Table:

to insert data into specific columns of the table:
	type the "names of the column" in which you want to insert data into table using INSERT INTO statement, and follow the syntax of insert data.

to insert data into multiple rows of the table:
	insert 2nd row after the 1st row in the table.

Bst Pratise:

Insert data into the table by specify column names in multiple rows at once.

Questions:

Q: How to insert data into full row?	OR
   How to insert data into all the columns of the table?    	OR
   How to insert data without specifying column names?

Q: How to insert data into the specific columns of the table?	OR
   How to insert data into table with specifying column names?

Q: How to insert data into the table by 1 row at a time?    	OR
   How to insert data into the table by multiple rows at once?


