Database:

a database is a way to store data in a format which makes it easily accessible. 
short data can be stored in the form of files and folders and in excel and can access it easily.
but long data can not be stored in the form of files, folders and in excel.

we use database to access data in a particular format/pattern/serial or any order. 
files or folders m store kia huwa data is trah se access nhi kia ja sakta, hamen khud se manually krna parega
ye sara kaam, jo database kuch queries ki help se kar deta hai.

What is Query?

Query is like a question we ask to the database.
we give instructions by using Query.
Query is like a command that we give in cmd, terminal, git and github.
Query is a command to the database that we give to the database by following some rules.
we can write Queries in the white area. 

What is the mean of issuing a Query/Query issue krna?

write Queries in the white area and then run it by clicking on the flash icon. 

What is SQL:

SQL is all about writing efficient Queries and writing Queries that solves a problem. 

Importance of Database:

nowadays big data is stored in the database. 
all the big companies such as google, facebook, chatgpt, instagram, linkedin, etc stores data in the database. 
and when we open our chats in chatgpt, then it retrieves data from their database and behind the scenes SQL Queries run.

we need data engineers to design these types of SQL Queries. 

What is CRUD?

there is a word in database which is CRUD.
CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. 
these are 4 primary operations in any database to do. 
we want to create a new record, read a record, update a record or delete a record. 

we use database to create, read, update and delete records efficiently.
we can store data in excel, but it is very limited in no of rows, computation time, speed.

we need an efficient system to handle millions of data very easily. 

What is DBMS?

DBMS stands for Database Management System.
when we interact with database, we do not directly interact with database.
we do interactions through DBMS. 
We give SQL Queries to the DBMS and it further applies in database and then do what you want.

My SQL is the most popular database management system. 

some other examples are:

postgreSQL
MS SQL
MySQL 

D/F B/W Relational DBMS and Non-Relational DBMS:

Relational DBMS :

Relational DBMS has a set schema. 
Data Model is Table that consists into Rows & Columns. 
we store data in the form of Tables.
there are datatypes and constraints in the tables.
Data is structured and we can link the tables using Foreign Key. 
Rules are very strict because we store our data according to set schema.
if this schema have not been followed then we cannot store our data.
Example: agr hamen address k no of characters ko 1000 se kam rakhna hai to ham 1000 se ziada no fo characters nhi rakh sakte address m. 

Non-Relational DBMS:

We store data in Non-Relational DBMS in any set of schema. 
it does not follow a particular set schema. 
Data is flexible.
don't need to use SQL always. 
used when there are alot of read operations and to optimize read operations. 

Most popular example is mongoDB. 
Otehr examples:
Cassandra
Reddis
neo4j

First Install MYSQL:

search mysql on google
go to first website: dev.mysql.com
click pre download 
click no thanks just start download 
after downloading, open installer
click full, next
next
execute
click next 4/5 times 
give current root password 
click check 
click 2 times next 
click execute 
finist 
2 times next 
give that password 
next 
execute 
next finish 

after that, open MY SQL 
click on + next to my sql connections.
type connection name, click ok, give password, save password in vault, ok 

Code 01:

Create Database:

Rules:

database name, table name, column name does not include space.
we can write underscore "_" instead of space.

Q1: How to create a database?

create a database named "startersql" by writing a Query.
after that run the Query by clicking on the yellow flash icon.
then we will see the text below: "1 row affected".
after that click on the refresh icon on the left side bar named "Schemas".
then here, we will see a database named "startersql".

Select Database:

then select this database to work on it.

Q2: How to select database to work on it after creating database?

we can also switch database between work but ideally we cannot do like this.
we select 1 database and then work on it.
after that we will see the text below: "0 rows affected".

Create Table:

after that create a table.

Q3: How to create a table in a database?

we can write constraints after datatype in the table.
we can write constraints as many as we want. 

what are datatypes?
what are constraints?

Q4: after creating the table, how to see/check the data/structure of the table?

we can see/check the data or structure of the table by using SELECT statement.

Drop Database and Drop Table:

Drop database means delete the complete database along with all the tables and their data that created and stored in that database.
Drop table means delete the table along with data that is stored in that table.

Q5: How to delete the table?
Q6: How to delete the database?

Write an Script Program and Save this Script in file:

when we create a SQL script by writing many Queries, we can save this script in the file. 
and when we need this SQL script, we just open this script file and run it.

Q7: How to save the SQL script in the file?

Write the script first
go to file 
click on save script file
give the name to the file 
choose your location where you want to save
click ok 





