Topics:

MySQL workbench
Database 
Query 
SQL 
Importance of Database
CRUD 
DBMS 
D/F B/W Relational DBMS and Non-Relational DBMS
Install MYSQL
Rules OF SQL/My SQL server
1. Create Database
2. Select Database
3. Create Table
4. Check the Data of the table
5. Delete Database and DELETE Table
6. Write an Script Program and Save this Script in file
7. How to save the script in fie?
8. Comment

Notes Starts Here!

MySQL workbench:

MySQL Workbench is a visual tool for database architects, developers, and DBAs.
It provides data modeling, SQL development, and comprehensive administration
tools for server configuration, user administration, backup, and much more

Database:

a database is a way to store data in a format which makes it easily accessible. 
short data can be stored in the form of files and folders and in excel and can access it easily.
but long data can not be stored in the form of files, folders and in excel.

we use database to access data in a particular format/pattern/serial or any order. 
files or folders m store kia huwa data is trah se access nhi kia ja sakta, hamen khud se manually krna parega
ye sara kaam, jo database kuch queries ki help se kar deta hai.

A database is a container that stores related data in an organized way. In MySQL, a
database holds one or more tables.

Think of it like:

Folder analogy:

A database is like a folder.
Each table is a file inside that folder.
The rows in the table are like the content inside each file.
Excel analogy:

A database is like an Excel workbook.
Each table is a separate sheet inside that workbook.
Each row in the table is like a row in Excel.

What is Query?

Query is like a question we ask to the database.
we give instructions by using Query.
Query is like a command that we give in cmd, terminal, git and github.
Query is a command to the database that we give to the database by following some rules.
we can write Queries in the white area. 

What is the mean of issuing a Query/Query issue krna?

write Queries in the white area and then run it by clicking on the flash icon. 

What is SQL:

SQL is all about writing efficient Queries and writing Queries that solves a problem. 
we can see the output of multiple statements in different tabs. 

Importance of Database:

nowadays big data is stored in the database. 
all the big companies such as google, facebook, chatgpt, instagram, linkedin, etc stores data in the database. 
and when we open our chats in chatgpt, then it retrieves data from their database and behind the scenes SQL Queries run.

we need data engineers to design these types of SQL Queries. 

What is CRUD?

there is a word in database which is CRUD.
CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. 
these are 4 primary operations in any database to do. 
we want to create a new record, read a record, update a record or delete a record. 

we use database to create, read, update and delete records efficiently.
we can store data in excel, but it is very limited in no of rows, computation time, speed.

we need an efficient system to handle millions of data very easily. 

What is DBMS?

DBMS stands for Database Management System.
when we interact with database, we do not directly interact with database.
we do interactions through DBMS. 
We give SQL Queries to the DBMS and it further applies in database and then do what you want.

My SQL is the most popular database management system. 

some other examples are:

postgreSQL
MS SQL
MySQL 

A Database Management System (DBMS) is software that interacts with end users,
applications, and the database itself to capture and analyze data. It allows for the
creation, retrieval, updating, and management of data in databases. If you know
one DBMS, you can easily transition to another, as they share similar concepts and
functionalities.

D/F B/W Relational DBMS and Non-Relational DBMS:

Relational DBMS :

Relational DBMS has a set schema. 
Data Model is Table that consists into Rows & Columns. 
we store data in the form of Tables.
there are datatypes and constraints in the tables.
Data is structured and we can link the tables using Foreign Key. 
Rules are very strict because we store our data according to set schema.
if this schema have not been followed then we cannot store our data.
Example: agr hamen address k no of characters ko 1000 se kam rakhna hai to ham 1000 se ziada no fo characters nhi rakh sakte address m. 

Non-Relational DBMS:

We store data in Non-Relational DBMS in any set of schema. 
it does not follow a particular set schema. 
Data is flexible.
don't need to use SQL always. 
used when there are alot of read operations and to optimize read operations. 

Most popular example is mongoDB. 
Otehr examples:
Cassandra
Reddis
neo4j

First Install MYSQL:

search mysql on google
go to first website: dev.mysql.com
click pre download 
click no thanks just start download 
after downloading, open installer
click full, next
next
execute
click next 4/5 times 
give current root password 
click check 
click 2 times next 
click execute 
finist 
2 times next 
give that password 
next 
execute 
next finish 

after that, open MY SQL 
click on + next to my sql connections.
type connection name, click ok, give password, save password in vault, ok 

Code 01:

1. Create Database:

Rules OF SQL/My SQL server:

database name, table name, column name does not include space.
we can write underscore "_" instead of space.

Q1: How to create a database?

create a database named "startersql" by writing a Query.
after that run the Query by clicking on the yellow flash icon from the top.
then we will see the text below: "1/0 row affected".
after that click on the refresh icon on the left side bar named "Schemas".
then here, we will see a database named "startersql".

2. Select Database:

then select this database to work on it.

Q2: How to select database to work on it after creating database?

After creating the database, either:

Right-click it in MySQL Workbench and select “Set as Default Schema”.
	OR
type the Query to select the database to work on it.

we can also switch databases between work but ideally we cannot do like this.
we select 1 database and then work on it.
after that we will see the text below: "0 rows affected".

3. Create Table:

after selecting database, create a table.

Q3: How to create a table in the database and define the structure of the table?

we can create a table by writing a Query.
after that we need to define the structure of the table.
first we create the structure of a table like table name, table columns, column names, etc.
then we need to define datatypes for every column of the table after column name.
then write constraints after datatype in the table where needed.

Note:	we can write constraints as many as we want. 

what are datatypes?
what are constraints?
above 2 topics include in notes 2

4. Check the Data of the table:

Q4: after creating the table, how to see/check the records/data/structure of the table?

we can see/check the data or structure of the table by using SELECT statement.

5. Delete/Drop Database and DELETE/Drop Table:

Drop database means delete the complete database along with all the tables and their data that created and stored in that database.
Drop table means delete the table along with data that is stored in that table.
we can delete the database and table by writing a Query.

Q5: How to delete the table?
Q6: How to delete the database?

above 2 topics included in Queries 1

6. Write an Script Program and Save this Script in file:

a SQL script will be created by writing some lines of Queries.
when we create a SQL script by writing many Queries, we can save this script in a file. 
and when we need this SQL script, we just open this script file and run it once.

Q7: How to save the SQL script in the file?

Write the script first
go to file 
click on save script file
give the name to the file 
choose your location where you want to save
click ok 

Short:

create a SQL script
press ctrl + s
give name to this file
select location, click save.

Q8: What is a comment?

SQL ignores those lines or Queries that will be commented.

we can write notes using comments.
if we don't want to run any query, we can comment it.

press ctrl + / to comment or uncomment.
type double dashes "--" at the start of any line to comment and remove this to uncomment.




